# Design, implementation, and evaluation of a virtual-machine based, high-availability (HA) MySQL Master-Master replication service
## Abstract
High availability (HA) storage services are now commonplace as part of cloud providers’ PaaS offerings. Examples are Amazon’s Aurora and Azure MSSQL/MySQL PaaS services where data storage is fully managed in terms of redundancy, scalability and load balancing. Though the benefits of a PaaS-based HA storage service are clear, there are scenarios where the need for a more portable and user-configurable solution is required where interoperability is key. A comprehensive review of cloud patterns/models including PaaS and IaaS, as well as HA services will be undertaken including review of internal and external cloud load balancing techniques. By building a bespoke and highly interoperable HA storage service using an IaaS approach, the service will have the capability to be deployed across a minimum of two Linux virtual machines with master-slave, master-master, and eventually load balancing configured if deployed to cloud. The virtual machines will host the entire deployment stack, emulating the feature set of a PaaS HA storage service. The result is bespoke virtual machine images running the HA service which can be deployed on any cloud provider’s platform. A basic REST service will be required to test the replication service’s performance capabilities. This project is multi-faceted with some components that can be negotiated from the perspective of local and/or cloud development. Development in the first instance will take place on locally-managed virtual machines using hosted virtualization, with a view to some cloud-based deployment for testing.
## What's in this repo?
* Several Jinja templates and YAML files which will define the infrastructure as code
* .sh scripts which can be used to deploy additional resources required for testing. 
* Findings and the final report will be included when written.
## Image URL
The image created for this project can be downloaded [here](https://www.googleapis.com/compute/v1/projects/cmp3747m-grooby-16605155/global/images/master-stack-v3). You will need to follow the instructions of your chosen cloud platform in order to import the image.

When this repo is made public, it will be used for future referencing, and fair usage will be allowed. I wouldn't recommend ripping off the work here for your academic use because of this little thing called plagiarism...
